(announcer)
In the criminal justice system,
sexually based offenses
are considered
especially heinous.
In New York City,
the dedicated detectives
who investigate
these vicious felonies
are members of an elite squad
known as
the Special Victims Unit.
These are their stories.
So the outlets are covered.
Corner padding.
Miss Benson
toddler-proofed every inch.
And he's been eating
a lot lately.
How about outdoor activity?
(Benson)
He has scheduled
exercise time at daycare,
and, of course, the babysitter
takes him out every day.
And Miss Benson spends weekends
and mornings with Noah.
(Benson)
And at night,
of course, we read.
Noah didn't have a lot of
verbal interaction as an infant,
so I want to make sure
he doesn't get too far behind
in his language development.
Do you sing to him?
That's also important.
- Of course.
- Good.
You need a toddler bed before
he climbs out of that crib.
Of course.
Okay. So...
You've passed
all your home studies.
I'm going to recommend
you be approved
- as an adoptive parent.
- Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Thank you, Miss Jackson.
Good luck, Miss Benson.
[sighs]
That's great, Olivia.
So what's next?
I'll confirm with the agency
that Noah's free for adoption,
then we initiate proceedings
and go before Judge Linden.
Paperwork seems in order.
Noah's history.
"Birth mother--deceased.
Birth father--unknown.
- No other known--"
- Yeah, about that.
There's something
that I should tell you.
So we stumbled across
Noah's birth father
during an investigation.
There was a mother searching for
her missing daughter.
(woman)
Please, Nina,
where is Ariel?
Look,
this is how it is.
The morning after he beat her,
Timmer drove her to hell.
He killed her?
He took her to Johnny D.
Johnny D keeps
his new girls chained up
for a whole week,
lets all these pimps come in,
do whatever they want to them.
That's how he breaks them.
- Did you know about this?
- No. No, I swear.
Timmer asked for you
by name.
If you're lying to me,
you're dead.
Hey, Timmer, this is Johnny D.
Okay, now we know that
you sold Ariel to him.
Come on.
Now, who told you that?
I'm going to ask you again.
Where is he keeping the girl?
You think I'm crazy?
Nobody's gonna
talk about Johnny D.
Look, he don't think twice
about killing a pimp,
a whore, or a cop.
Hey, drop the glass.
All right, drop it now.
Johnny Drake, aka Johnny D,
has run out of delaying tactics.
We are proceeding to trial
on 17 counts of rape,
assault, trafficking,
and kidnapping.
Nice work taking this
from the Feds.
You'll need us to testify?
I'm assuming
that won't be problem.
- Not at all.
- Lots of witnesses.
- It's gonna be a long trial.
- I want him put away for life.
All right, what can we do?
Means you got to re-vet
every witness--no surprises.
Counselor, walk you out?
Something you need
to tell me?
Just so you know,
I've decided to name Johnny D
as Noah's birth father
on the adoption papers.
No. We've talked about this.
You are under no obligation
to do that.
It's not material to what
he's being charged with.
This isn't about the trial.
The adoption paperwork lists
Noah's birth father as unknown.
So what's the problem?
[whispers] Lying doesn't
work out well for me.
Okay.
Johnny D, family court--
separate universes.
He'll never find out.
Maybe not,
but someday Noah might.
Or the courts.
I don't want my life with Noah
to be built on a lie.
Don't do this.
Johnny D is a psychopath.
Do not open this door.
[cell door opens]
Stay seated.
- What?
- Nice to see you, too, Johnny.
Remember this girl--
Ellie Porter?
Crack whore who got
set on fire. Wait...
Are they trying to pin her
on me now?
Relax. Someone else
took that rap.
So, why am I
supposed to give a crap?
Because she may be
your get-out-of-jail-free card.
I think I get why the Feds
kicked this case to Barba.
'Cause nobody wants to do
any more work than
they have to.
- Our bust, our case.
- That's true...
but geopolitically, Johnny D
is a Canadian national.
And they won't extradite
a U.S. citizen back here
- for a capital crime.
- Exactly.
(Carisi)
So, rather than risk
in an international brouhaha,
they give the case
to Barba.
We should've shot him
when we had the chance.
Probably. 'Cause even if Barba
gets a conviction on all counts,
he's looking at 25 to life.
He could be paroled in 15.
Okay, Barba, keep me posted.
- Liv. Hey, you got a minute?
- Yeah, of course. Come in.
What's up?
Fin mentioned
you're up for lieutenant
and that you might need
a new sergeant.
Right now, that's just talk.
Well, deadline's Friday.
Same with the sergeant's exam.
I just registered.
- Oh.
- Yeah.
I'd like to try
moving up the ranks.
After watching Munch,
and you,
it's a track
I can see myself on.
Of course. Just so you know,
I had to approach Fin first,
- 'cause he has seniority.
- I get that.
But he told me
he's not interested in
the administrative part
of the job and, well, I am.
Okay. Good.
Good.
Start studying.
I already have.
[chuckles]
[door opens]
Mr. Braun, walk me
through this.
Your Honor,
we are moving for
an immediate dismissal
of all charges.
The lead investigator,
Sergeant Olivia Benson,
was informed some time ago
by the M.E.'s office
that my client,
unbeknownst to him,
is the biological father
of the foster child
- she's attempting to adopt.
- Your Honor, it's immaterial.
Yeah, unless Sergeant Benson's
pursuit of my client
is motivated by her desire
to deny his parental rights.
(Barba)
Sergeant Benson
was not aware of the DNA
until after Mr. Drake
was processed.
His DNA was not in the system
prior to this arrest.
- Mr. Braun.
- Both SVU and the DA's office
have offered numerous deals
in exchange for testimony
against my client,
and they even wrested the case
away from the FBI.
If it smells like a vendetta
and looks like a vendetta...
Mr. Drake was arrested
by Sergeant Benson
in the presence
of other officers
while attempting
to flee a dungeon
where he was keeping 4 girls
imprisoned as sex slaves.
He's a dangerous
career criminal.
And yet his DNA
is not in the system?
Career criminal, or the victim
of a single-minded blood feud?
This allegation of a vendetta
is completely fabricated.
This motion itself
is an overreach.
All right, Mr. Barba. Save the
Ivy League oratory for trial,
if we get there.
Before I rule on
defense's motion,
I'll need to speak to the M.E.'s
office and Sergeant Benson.
We're adjourned.
[taps gavel]
- Olivia.
- Hey.
Thank you for meeting me here.
Your squad
know about the situation?
They do now.
Listen, just to be clear,
I did not know that Johnny D
was Noah's biological parent
- until after the arrest.
All right.
The M.E. confirms, we don't
have a problem with it.
I mean, you probably should have
kept it to yourself.
This scumbag will use
any leverage he has.
But either way,
as far as IAB is concerned,
you have absolutely
no liability.
Thank you.
- Is that tea?
- It is.
Man up, will you?
- Fine.
- That was easy.
Can I get two glasses of...
Of the Nero d'Avola.
Listen, while you're here,
I wanted to run something
past you.
Uh, Nick Amaro applied for
the sergeant's exam.
- Did he?
- Yeah.
You told me to think about
my number two,
and I think he'll do very well
on the test.
Thank you.
It doesn't matter if he gets
a perfect score on the test.
He's damaged goods.
He's a solid cop.
And lately,
he's turned things around.
He shot an unarmed
14-year-old kid,
chased after three others
with a baseball bat,
- beat an innocent suspect--
- Stop.
In all of those cases,
he was exonerated.
Technically, yes,
but realistically,
the way One PP sees it,
Amaro could cure cancer.
They're still not
gonna promote him.
Listen, I know
you like the guy,
but this is never
going to happen.
Got it.
(woman)
Right this way,
Mr. Braun.
Hmm. Nice digs.
My tax dollars at work.
Taxes? Don't most of
your clients pay you cash?
Ha. That's funny.
What can I do for you?
Well, while my motion
is pending,
I thought it'd be
a good time to be proactive.
- Mm-hmm. Go on.
- Here's what I can offer.
Johnny Drake had no knowledge
of this child's existence,
and he has been deprived
of his parental rights,
and he wants to do
everything he can
to assert those rights
and to be a good father
to Noah Porter.
Does he? Little hard to do
when you're serving 25 to life.
Here's where that
proactivity part comes in.
- Absolutely not.
- Will you just let me finish?
Johnny D will relinquish
all parental rights
and waive visitation.
Noah won't ever have to know
he existed.
- He doesn't get to do this.
- As I was trying to say...
they've offered a plea of
three to five years
for prostitution,
which, I agree,
is not enough.
- Not enough?
- But I think I can sell them...
on one count of trafficking,
pleaded down.
Braun indicated
they might accept ten years.
Yes, because he knows
that if this goes to trial
that Johnny D will spend
the rest of his life in prison.
He sex-trafficked
underaged girls.
He raped them,
he brutalized them.
He does not get to
plea this down
because I want to make my life
less complicated.
Okay. There's something else
you should know.
Regardless of whether
he is convicted or not,
he can still appeal
for his parental rights.
He could request, and has
a good shot at getting,
court-ordered visitation.
You could be taking your son
to visit Johnny D
You applied for
the sergeant's exam?
Seriously?
Yeah. Why?
I don't know.
What'd Liv say?
She thought it was a good idea.
Well, all right.
You should think about
taking it.
You'd be on
the fast track here.
Don't want to be
a detective forever.
Yeah, I do.
I'm good as I am.
My life is perfect.
Must be nice.
Hey, anybody
heard from Sarge? She's late.
She's dealing with a lot
right now.
Oh, good, you're all here.
So I just met with Barba.
The judge threw out
Johnny D's motion,
so it looks like we'll be
going to trial in a few days.
You're not going to
testify, are you?
I have to.
I was first one on scene.
Yeah, if Barba doesn't call you,
the defense definitely will.
They're going to try
and cast shade on you.
Still say
we should've shot him.
Okay, Fin.
So, Barba needs to schedule
prep time with all of you.
He also wants to assign each
of us to one of the witnesses.
- As bodyguards?
- No. More as confidants...
so they know that
we're looking out for them.
Also so we can let Barba know
if anyone gets shaky.
- So we bond with them.
- What about Selena and Timmer?
Their deal says
they have to testify.
They're both up at Sing Sing.
Make sure they feel secure.
Hey, Johnny D's
not getting away, Liv.
Yeah. Nick, you got a sec?
Sure.
So...
I was talking to Tucker.
Tucker. What does he think
I did now?
It's not him.
It's the department.
What does that mean?
It means that he thinks
that there's no point in you
taking the sergeant's exam.
He thinks they'll just
round-robin you out.
I get it.
- I'm sorry.
- Don't be.
What was it Munch said,
"Don't fall in love
with the job, kid.
She'll never love you back."
[door thuds]
(Jessie)
Been good for me here.
Cleaned up.
Just working my program.
- One day at a time, right?
- You got it.
Well, if you have any questions
about the trial or whatever,
we're here for you.
Yes, I believe you.
I believe my social worker.
I know I have to testify.
It's the right thing.
(Carisi)
Okay.
That's good to hear.
Whatever you guys want,
I do.
How about we go over what
you'll be saying on the stand?
Thank you, Ariel,
thank you, Martha,
for coming back to New York.
Ariel, you look good.
She's doing great.
So, Johnny D's
going to trial.
We just wanted
to prepare you to testify.
That's why we're here.
Screw you. I want to see
my son again.
After you testify, right?
That's the deal.
After I testify, I'll be dead.
We are going to protect you.
I don't believe you.
So what, I just tell
the truth, the whole truth,
nothing but the truth,
so help me?
You got it.
Look, don't worry about it.
Johnny D's going down.
I'ma take care of that
for you, baby.
- Hey.
- It's okay, Fin.
Mr. Barba's gonna walk you
through your testimony--
what you saw,
what you knew.
No embellishments.
I got this, and, um...
you know I didn't mean
no offense by that, right?
None taken.
That guy's working us.
He's working you.
I don't trust him.
You don't have to
trust him, Fin.
The only way he lives
to see summer
is if Johnny D gets sent away.
He knows that.
If you say so.
Amaro just finished with Selena.
He's on his way out.
Is he okay?
He was all business about
taking that sergeant's exam,
and after he talked to you,
I saw him throw his prep book
in the garbage.
NYPD doesn't want to
promote him.
Wow. That's tough.
(Amaro)
Hey, there you are.
I trust Selena
about as far as I can throw her.
Yeah, the same
goes for Timmer.
(Fin)
We don't
have to trust them.
They're both survivors,
and this is their last chance.
(Amaro)
I hope you're right.
Let's get out of here.
During the investigation,
we became aware
that Ariel was sold
to the defendant--Johnny Drake.
(Barba)
And where was he
keeping Ariel?
(Benson)
In Queens, in
an abandoned hospital basement.
Ariel and three other
underaged girls
were found locked up,
they were drugged,
beaten, and raped.
This is a process
used by sex traffickers
called "breaking in."
The girls suffer physical
and emotional torture,
which basically destroys
any impulse they have
to fight back or escape.
And when you and the other
detectives arrived at the scene,
what happened?
We were able to rescue
three of the girls.
They all had injuries
that were consistent with
being brutally beaten.
They had bruising,
broken ribs, lacerations.
We later found out that
the girls were gang-raped
and tortured by Johnny D
and several of his pimps.
Your Honor, exhibit "A"--
The medical report
on the victims.
The M.E. and the girls
will testify
to what they suffered
in Mr. Drake's custody.
Tell us
what happened next.
Well, we heard the sound
of breaking glass,
and when
we ran down the hallway,
we found Johnny D
attempting to escape
with Ariel Thornhill
as his hostage.
He was holding a shard of glass
to her neck.
Eventually he surrendered,
at which time, we placed him
under arrest
and read him his rights.
Do you see the man
you apprehended
- in this courtroom today?
- Yes, I do.
He's right there.
Thank you, Sergeant Benson.
Afternoon, Sergeant Benson.
Thank you
for sparing the time.
You're not just a sergeant
at SVU.
You're also foster mother
to a toddler, correct?
Your Honor,
we have been over this.
- Sergeant Benson only--
- Gentlemen, approach.
Now that it's just
the three of us, Mr. Barba.
Sergeant Benson
only became aware
that Mr. Drake was her son's
birth father
after he was in police custody.
But not after the investigation
was completed.
The M.E.'s office's
statement
confirms that Sergeant Benson
was informed
one day after the arrest,
which was before my client
was even charged.
- Completely irrelevant.
- Not to my client.
The jury is entitled
to hear about
Sergeant's Benson's
conflict of interest
and possibly the DA's.
When did you became aware of
the child's parentage,
Counselor?
Your Honor, that may fall under
attorney-client privilege.
While you're both
working on this case
for the city of New York,
I doubt that.
But how about I spare you
the embarrassment
and possible ethical jeopardy
of answering,
and you agree to drop
the objection
on this line of questioning.
Are we good?
Sergeant Benson,
you're in the process
of adopting your foster son,
- correct?
- Yes, that is correct.
And who did you disclose
was the child's
birth father to the agency?
Johnny Drake.
The defendant,
the same man that
you spent so much time
singularly focused on
investigating and apprehending?
And that had nothing to do
with the paternity issue.
Well, you're trying to
adopt this child.
Is it fair to say that
the father's right to custody
- could interfere with that?
- Of course it's possible.
- But it had nothing--
- Is it also fair to say
that it's in your
best interest
for my client
to be found guilty?
My only interest
is in making sure
that a sadistic,
violent sex trafficker
be brought to justice.
Frankly, your anger
seems personal to me.
- Your Honor.
- Withdrawn. Nothing further.
Sergeant Benson,
you may step down.
Thank you, Your Honor.
The prosecution would now--
Actually, we'll recess
for the day.
Prosecution's case
will continue
at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow.
Court is adjourned.
How's my son,
Sergeant Benson?
That's enough, Drake.
I seen pictures.
I can't wait to meet him.
That's never gonna happen.
[reporters shouting]
Liv, let's get you
out of here.
- He got to me in there.
- It's not on you, Liv.
The jury's not gonna believe
any of that crap.
- Who's gonna testify next?
- It was gonna be the M.E...
but I'm gonna move up
Timmer and Selena.
I'll call and have them
transported.
It's still early--you want to
take a ride up to Sing Sing?
- Give 'em one last pep talk?
- Great idea. Go now.
Liv, stairs.
[reporters shouting]
I testify tomorrow?
And after that,
you'll see your son.
- If I live.
- We'll protect you.
Trust us.
You know how you survive
in here?
You trust nobody.
Yo, I'd like to change clothes,
you know, before court.
- Get up out these greens.
- Tomorrow.
You're a cooperating witness,
so we'll give you
a little bit of latitude.
You're gonna stay in a motel
tonight,
get a good night's rest.
Want you to look good
for that jury.
Yeah. You know I won't
let you down, right, my brother?
Look, I've been doing a lot of
thinking when I was inside, huh?
I've spent all my life
running, drugging, and pimping.
- I want to change that.
- Yeah, well, now's the time.
(Timmer)
Yeah, man, I been
doing some reading, too.
You know, the autobiography
of Malcolm X, Soul on Ice?
I become aware
of what Eldridge Cleaver
would call touching to
my higher uneducation.
We got Selena Cruz.
- Put her in.
- It's your last chance, Selena.
How long you been
out of the van?
What, you gonna write me up?
You couldn't wait
20 minutes?
[thudding]
Drop it. Drop it!
He attacked me.
How the hell did this happen?
Two prisoners, two officers.
One of 'em pulled over
for a cup of coffee,
the other one
took a smoke break.
They figure since Selena
and Timmer were testifying,
- they were on our team.
- Or not.
Start
a complete investigation
into the background
of both officers.
Deceased is male,
black, 30 years old.
In good physical shape.
Dr. Rudnick,
what've we got?
Cause of death is severed
carotid and jugular artery.
He bled out
in less than a minute.
And the manner is homicide?
Goes without saying,
Detective.
The woman who did this
is claiming self-defense.
- Anything that backs that up?
- In my opinion,
given his size, she used
the element of surprise,
sliced his throat
from ear to Adam's apple
before he knew
he was under attack.
Any defensive wounds?
Some cuts on her hands
and arms.
Absent video proof, it's
impossible to know the sequence.
All right. Thank you.
Counselor,
how's the trial going?
Better before this happened.
This Johnny D--he's a monster.
The torture, the injuries
his victims suffered.
Did the jury understand
the significance of my report?
That every one
of those girls
had left ribs
eight, nine, and ten broken?
It's a strange coincidence
unless one man has
a pattern to his beatings.
We'll be calling you
to testify to that.
It's horrible to think a man
could do that to a woman.
And even worse that
he might get away with it.
Thank you for your faith
in me, Doctor.
Timmer pull out the blade.
He comes at me.
He tells me
I'm never gonna testify.
That he kill me first.
So you grabbed it
and slit his throat?
- That's right.
- Selena,
you're half his size.
How did you grab that blade?
Did you have help?
He threatened
to kill my son.
I found the strength
to fight back.
Well, you're still
gonna have to testify.
No. I don't care
what happen to me,
but my son?
You don't know Johnny
like I do.
My Selena.
She can get fired up.
Your Selena?
You had her kill Timmer?
Why would I do that?
He was going to testify
against you,
so you had her
do your dirty work.
My client's been in Rikers
since his arrest.
No visitors.
Check the log.
I had no reason
to kill Timmer.
He was never going to
testify against me.
That's not what he said.
You bought that
Eldridge Cleaver line?
I bet he called you
"my brother" too.
We're done.
- I should say so.
- Oh, before you go...
my client has something
for your sergeant.
A present...for my son.
[laughs] Yeah, we'll make sure
she gets it.
Leave it to The Ledger.
Turns out, the female CO was
dating one of Johnny D's pimps.
- She slipped Selena the blade.
- Great.
We've already doubled security
on all four girls--
Jessie, Nina, Pilar,
and Ariel.
Doesn't matter.
He's already in their heads.
So we keep going.
The longer we wait,
the more spooked the girls get.
Make sure they're ready
to take the stand tomorrow.
Timmer bled out? Good.
He used to boot-stomp us.
Okay. Well, we just wanted
to make sure
that what happened
doesn't affect your testimony.
- It don't.
- Okay, good.
'Cause, Pilar, Johnny D's
gonna be in the courtroom.
Just want to make sure
you're prepared for that.
I'm not afraid. I'll look him
right in the eye.
Thank you for coming in,
Miss Morenas.
- You ready to take the stand?
- It's just for practice.
Counselor wants to
go over it again.
Okay, Detective Carisi.
(Barba)
So let's get started.
Miss Morenas, do you know
Johnny Drake?
I was sold to him
by another pimp.
Johnny D said he needed
to test me.
He punched me and broke my ribs,
and then he raped me.
And how old were you?
I met Johnny D
when I was 15.
And what happened at that time?
Well...
Do you need a minute,
Miss Morenas?
No. I'm fine.
Can you tell us what happened
when you first met
the defendant--Johnny Drake?
He offered me money.
To have sex with him?
No. To clean his apartment.
I remind you
that you are under oath.
Let me ask again,
Miss Morenas.
When you first met
the defendant,
was he a sex trafficker
who beat and raped you?
No, he wasn't.
You testified
to a grand jury
that Mr. Drake
beat you and raped you.
I remind you again
you are under oath.
I only said that
so I wouldn't be deported.
I'm illegal. I was afraid.
Are you afraid of
Mr. Drake now?
Is that why
you're changing your story?
No. Johnny D never hurt
or raped me.
He loves me,
and I love him.
- Your Honor, I need to confer.
- I'll grant a one-hour recess.
You can shout all you want.
I told the truth.
- Barba...
- Get her out of here.
- Counselor.
- What?
That deal I shopped--
it's off the table,
what with your star witness
being dead and all.
You mean murdered by a hit
that your client ordered.
We both know that's impossible.
And now you've got a witness
reversing on the stand.
It seems to me
that reasonable doubt
is suddenly very reasonable.
Whatever you're selling, Braun,
we're not interested.
Well, you might be interested
in this.
[door closes]
"Johnny D is requesting
an emergency appeal
"to reinstate
his parental rights
"and stop the adoption
of his son--
Tucker said this was
going to be a bad week.
I'm calling in favors
to make sure
the right judge rules
in this appeal.
Trevor Langan,
Noah's attorney, he's on it.
He says that the best move
would be to get a conviction.
Good idea, but these girls
are just so scared
for their lives or scarred.
I'm worried
they're gonna fold, too.
You know, they may not
listen to us,
but there is somebody that knows
exactly what they went through.
You know, I'm sorry to put
more pressure on you, Ariel.
Don't be.
You saved my life.
Yeah, one more thing.
I wanted to give you this.
"Fearlessness."
It works.
Thank you.
So you've all
heard about Timmer,
about Selena.
And Pilar. Did Johnny D
threaten her?
We don't know.
She's not talking.
But what we do know
is that we need each one of you
to tell your story.
Let the jury hear about
the pain,
about the brutality
that you've suffered.
Let the jury see...Johnny D
as the monster that he is,
and they will
send him to prison
for the rest of his life.
Ariel.
Johnny D treated me,
treated all of us,
like we were nothing.
Like we were worthless.
Just a body to own,
to beat, to rape...
To kill
so he could make money.
I lived in fear.
I cried every day
until I couldn't cry anymore.
Then I just...became numb.
Like all of you.
But we're free now.
And Johnny D
doesn't control us.
He doesn't own us.
We don't have to be
afraid anymore.
And testifying is the only way
to prove that.
So promise yourselves,
promise each other
that you will get on
that stand tomorrow
and you'll tell the truth.
I promise.
So do I.
Me, too.
I'd been forced to have sex
with 15 men in 12 hours.
I was raw, bleeding.
Johnny D forced me
to take drugs
and then work another
12-hour shift.
He chained me to the bed,
and then brought in
his sickest friends.
He let them do whatever they
wanted to me until I passed out.
He said if I didn't bring him
other girls, my friends,
he would rape
my little sister.
She was 11.
He was kicking her
in the head,
and her eyes glazed over.
He rolled her up in a rug
and took her out.
I heard a gunshot, and...
I never saw her again.
My pimp, Timmer, found out
that I was trying to escape,
so he sold me to Johnny D.
Sold you?
Yeah. He said that after
a few weeks with Johnny,
I'd crawl back to him.
What happened when he first
brought you to Mr. Drake?
I was stripped,
chained, raped,
and sodomized repeatedly
by Johnny and four other pimps.
A few days after, Johnny D
said we're going to a party.
He forced me to do cocaine
and uppers
so I could perform.
We drove to the house.
Cops were there.
Johnny D accused me
of setting him up,
so he slammed my head
against the window.
He laughed.
Told me the cops
were there looking for me.
That my mother
was looking for me, too.
What else did he say?
That I'd never
see my mother again.
Liv, those girls
did great today.
Barba, too.
Timed his direct to Ariel
so the judge had to adjourn
before Braun could cross.
The jury replaying
what those girls said...
not sleeping tonight.
Between what he's done to them,
what he's doing to you...
He's not going to do
anything to me.
Liv, I was wrong
to add to your stress
with this sergeant thing.
No, it--
Look, I put you in
a bad position, and I'm sorry.
I know how hard that must've
been for you to hear.
I'm sorry.
But we'll get through this.
Yes, we will.
- See you in court tomorrow.
- Yeah.
Liv, you see the look
on Johnny D's face
when those girls testified?
He knows he's done.
Those were disturbing stories
you told, Miss Thornhill.
And you've been a sex worker
for how many years now?
- Objection.
- Sustained.
I'll rephrase.
How old were you
when you left home?
I didn't leave.
I was kidnapped.
But not by my client.
- No.
- In fact...
you'd only been working
together for a short time
before he was arrested.
Isn't that so?
I wasn't working.
I was held prisoner.
Okay, and you'd been
held prisoner by others
for three years prior.
Have you ever been asked to
testify against anyone else?
No.
I see.
And Sergeant Benson--
has she personally
prevailed upon you?
I'm sorry, that means
pressured you,
to testify
against Mr. Drake?
[mouthing words]
She asked, but I wanted to.
He's a horrible man.
He raped me repeatedly.
Liar!
You're a lying bitch.
Order. Order.
How you can let her
lie like that?
[gavel bangs]
- Order.
One more outburst,
I will clear this gallery.
You don't tell me to shut up.
You shut up.
That's it. Officers,
every one of them out now.
- Come on, let's go.
- What? Yo, leave her alone.
- Get back.
- He's not doing nothing.
You, out.
[overlapping chatter]
- Calm down, calm down.
- He has a gun.
- Stay back.
- Drop the gun. Let her go.
- Everybody back off!
[screaming]
[gasps]
- Nick. Nick, don't.
- Drop it.
- How is he?
- We got to move. We got to go.
- I'll ride in the ambulance.
- I'll meet you at Bellevue.
- How's the judge?
- She's okay.
She got hit in the shoulder.
Ariel, you all right,
honey?
Yeah, I think.
She's gone. Point blank
through the temple.
Johnny D?
He's dead. Two in the chest.
Amaro got him.
- Is he gonna make it?
- En route to Bellevue.
Rollins, how's Nick?
He's in surgery.
A bullet hit his liver,
so they had to do
an emergency laparotomy.
Now they're working on
his knee.
The liver can heal itself,
but a bullet to the knee--
Yeah, I know that, Carisi.
Sorry. I'll get us
some coffee, okay?
- Yeah.
- Amaro's okay?
- Considering.
- Johnny D?
He's dead.
The court officer, too.
A judge and another CO
got hit.
What was he thinking? Grabbing
a gun, shooting a judge?
No way he was getting
out of that building alive.
That's exactly
what he was thinking.
Hey, Lucy, thank you
for staying.
Oh, of course. How's Nick?
Out of surgery, you know.
His mother's with him.
[whispers]
It could've been worse.
Hi, my love.
You're still awake.
He didn't want to sleep
without his mommy.
Oh, mommy's home.
Mommy's home.
(Linden)
Father's recently deceased?
Yes, and the agency
was unable to locate
any living blood relatives.
Okay. Sergeant Benson,
are you willing to raise
this child as your lawful child?
Yes.
(Linden)
This child
will inherit from you.
He will be treated
no differently
than a biological child.
Do you agree?
Yes.
I know it's been a long year,
a hard process.
But everything
seems to be in order.
Congratulations, Olivia.
And to you,
Noah Porter Benson.
I'm signing off
on the adoption.
Thank you, Judge.
Thank you.
All the best to you
and your family.
Thank you.
We did it.
Noah Porter Benson.
Congratulations, Liv.
You look happy.
- I am.
- Amaro coming?
Yeah. He's on his way.
He's doing better,
right?
Yeah. He's, you know,
only two weeks into PT,
so it's gonna be
a long road.
- Hey.
- There he is.
Hey, you guys started
without us.
Nick, Amanda,
thank you for coming.
- For you.
- Wouldn't miss it.
Thank you.
So I'll be hobbling around
for three months.
There may be a cane.
Yeah. You're gonna be on
desk duty for a while.
We'll work it out.
About that.
I haven't told
anyone else yet,
but I've been talking
to my delegate.
And with this knee injury,
they're gonna try
and force me out.
Hold on. We're gonna
fight that, Nick.
You're young,
you're in good health.
Liv...I'm not going anywhere
in the department, anyway.
Look, I could retire now,
put in for 3/4 pay,
tax free, and start over again
in California.
Nick...
Are you sure?
Zara's in LA.
Gil's in San Diego.
I am sure.
I don't know what to say.
I know I wasn't what
your old partner was for you.
No, you weren't.
I grew more in
my last 4 years with you
than I did in the 12 years
that I was with him.
You know, that relationship,
whatever it was,
didn't allow for
anything else.
But with you,
with your support...
I have a family.
Yes, you do.
[whispers] You helped me grow.
I appreciate you
saying that.
Wow, so...
whatever happens,
Nick Amaro,
friends for life.
Friends for life.
- To family.
[glasses clink]
Cheers.